The College of Alberta Psychologists > Resources & Regulatory Information > Practice Alerts
Skip to content
Menu
Search
MyCAP Login
Search
Search
Concerns
Overview
Sexual Abuse/Misconduct
Evaluation of Academic Credentials
Introduction & Overview
Application Steps & Requirements
Application Deadlines & Stages
Re-Evaluation, Request for Review & Re-Application
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Credentials
NEW Criteria for Evaluating Academic & Doctoral Credentials: Effective January 1, 2030
Registration
Overview
Registration and Supervision
Competence in Formal Assessment
Frequently Asked Questions
Examinations
Mobility Applicants
Internationally Trained Psychologists
Courtesy (Temporary) Applicants
Substantial Equivalency
My Practice Permit
Registration Verification/Confirmation
RASC Meeting Dates
Fee Schedule
Continuing Competence
Introduction and Resources
Competence Area Examples
Frequently Asked Questions
Technology Tips
Audit
Frameworks
CCP Online Form Enhancements
Competence Committee
Regulatory Navigation
Overview
Frequently Asked Questions
Annual Update Meeting & Professional Development Event
Resources & Regulatory Information
Standards and Codes
Practice Guidelines
Practice Alerts
CAP Monitor
Annual Reports
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)
COVID-19 Updates and Information
About
Council
Council Appointments
Staff
Strategic Plan
Departments and Committees
Psychology
Related Sites
Careers at CAP
Practice Alerts
From time to time, the College issues practice alerts (formerly practice bulletins) about critical or complex areas to guide members. These alerts are intended to address specific as opposed to generic practice issues.
Practice Alert
Date of Issue
Last Revised
Involved Third Party Observers and Psychological Assessments
2008
June 2015
Mailing Address
College of Alberta Psychologists
1850-10123 99 Street NW
Edmonton, Alberta T5J 3H1
Hours
8:00 am - 4:00 pm Monday to Friday, excluding Statutory Holidays
Phone
780.424.5070 or
Toll free in Alberta at 1.800.659.0857
Fax
780.420.1241
Email
psych@cap.ab.ca
Subscribe to our channel
Visit our channel on YouTube
Are you in a crisis?
CAP does not provide a referral service, however, confidential mental health and addictions supports are available and contact information is provided below:
AHS Health Link:
811
Alberta Community Resources:
211
Alberta Mental Health Line (24/7):
1.877.303.2642
Addiction Help Line (24/7):
1.866.332.2322
Mental Health Crisis and Suicide Prevention (24/7/365):
988
Suicide Prevention (24/7/365):
1.833.456.4566 | Text 45645
Have Feedback?
We welcome your comments. Let us know if there is:
A topic we have missed?
Content that can be clarified?
A way to make the site easier to navigate?
Contact Us
Member Directory
Search the Member Directory to locate a registered member.
Visit Directory
Copyright 2026 by College of Alberta Psychologists
Privacy Policy Terms
Registration and Renewal
This section provides information and resources regarding registration requirements, fees and renewing a practice permit.
Concerns About a Psychologist
This section provides information and resources to address concerns about the conduct of a psychologist.
Evaluation of Academic Credentials
This webpage offers an introduction and overview of academic credentials evaluations at the College of Alberta Psychologists (CAP)
Continuing Competence
The Continuing Competence Program (CCP) fulfills CAP's regulatory and professional obligations as set out by the Health Professions Act and by our own Standards of Practice. Participation in the CCP is required for regulated members.
Regulatory Navigation
CAP communicates with members, providing regulatory information.
About CAP
Learn more about CAP and its mandated responsibiliites under the Health Professions Act.
Resources & Regulatory Information
A number of documents govern the regulation of the profession of psychology and documents and resources are developed in order to promote competent and ethical practice and to guide its members.
Sexual Abuse/Misconduct
Addressing and Preventing Sexual Abuse and Misconduct for Psychologists