Publications – APNS
Skip to content
Association of Psychologists of Nova Scotia
Find a Psychologist Login
Menu
Find a Psychologist
Login
About
About APNS
About Psychologists
Leadership
Committees
Getting Help
Members
Membership
Member Services
Honours and Awards
2026 Award Nominations
Interest Groups
Volunteering with APNS
Resources
Careers
Career Opportunities
Rental Space
Advertising Opportunities
Post a Career Opportunity (Member)
Post a Career Opportunity (Non Member)
Events
APNS Workshops and Events
External Workshops and Events
Psychology Month
APNS Workshop Proposal
News
APNS Publications
Policy Statements
Contact
Publications
Increase in Recommended Rate for Psychological Services
Published: May 29, 2024May 30, 2024 • 1 minute read
Please be advised that effective October 1, 2024 the Association of Psychologists of Nova Scotia (APNS) has set the recommended fee for psychological services provided by Psychologists registered with the Nova Scotia Regulator of Psychology at $225 per hour.
The official letter from the APNS President in regard to this increase is available here.
This fee increase is based on a review of other psychology association rates across Canada, and those currently being charged by psychologists across the province. APNS also reviewed and compared Psychologists rates to rates of other mental health professionals in Nova Scotia. The rate is reviewed annually and was last revised in 2021.
Published in Announcements, News, Policy Statements
The Nova Scotia Psychologist: Annual Report Issue – May 2024
Published: May 19, 2024July 15, 2024 • 1 minute read
The Nova Scotia Psychologist: Annual Report Issue – May 2024
Read more “The Nova Scotia Psychologist: Annual Report Issue – May 2024”
Published in Announcements, News, Newsletters
Statement of Accountability and Responsibility to Indigenous Peoples
Published: September 30, 2021September 30, 2021 • 1 minute read
The Council of Professional Associations of Psychologists (CPAP), of which APNS is a member, has made a Statement of Accountability and Responsibility to Indigenous Peoples. APNS has supported this statement that acknowledges that psychologists must be accountable for the profession’s marginalization of Indigenous Peoples in Canada.
To promote this accountability, CPAP’s Board of Directors moved to formally endorse the Canadian Psychological Association (CPA) Statement of Accountability in the CPA Task Force’s report entitled, “Psychology’s Response to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada’s Report.”
To read more, please see Psychology’s Response to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada’s Report by clicking on the link below.
https://cpa.ca/docs/File/Task_Forces/TRC%20Task%20Force%20Report_FINAL.pdf
The Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada’s Report and other related reports may be downloaded here:
https://nctr.ca/records/reports/#trc-reports
Published in News, Policy Statements, Reports
Disability Support Outreach Team (DSOT)
Published: August 18, 2026August 18, 2026 • 2 minute read
ORGANIZATION: Breton Ability
We are excited to be building a brand-new Disability Support Outreach Team (DSOT)!
DSOT is a brand-new team being built to bring Remedy to life, and this role offers a rare opportunity to help shape how innovative, community-based disability supports are delivered across Cape Breton. This team will bring their clinical expertise into a collaborative, community-based role where their work will have a visible impact on individuals, families, teams, and communities across the island.
Psychologist (PPT 32 hrs/week) – will provide assessment, therapy, consultation, and behavioural support for individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities, mental health needs, dual diagnoses, and complex behavioural presentations. As part of a collaborative interdisciplinary team, you will help turn ideas into practical supports rooted in innovation, compassion, human rights, and real community impact.
Breton Ability is committed to flexibility and is open to a range of scheduling arrangements, including full-time, part-time, shared, or customized schedules. Candidates are encouraged to apply regardless of their preferred hours, as we are willing to explore options that support both service delivery and work-life balance. Benefit eligibility may vary based on hours worked.
How to Apply:
Please submit an updated resume highlighting the qualifications listed and a cover letter expressing why you believe you are the best match for this role by August 24, 2026, to: Human Resources Coordinator via email only hr@cb-bac.ca
Please include “The Positions Title – Disability Support Outreach Team (DSOT)” in the subject line.
We thank all applicants for their interest; however, only those selected for an interview will be contacted.
Published in Career Opportunities
POSITIONS AVAILABLE: Psychologist, Social Worker & Counsellor
Published: June 22, 2026June 22, 2026 • 3 minute read
POSITION: Psychologist, Social Worker & Counsellor
ORGANIZATION: Sunnyside Psychological Services
LOCATION: Bedford, Nova Scotia
Sunnyside Psychological Services is a well-established, busy practice in the heart of Bedford. We provide services to children, adolescents, adults, and couples. We receive an abundance of referrals and are unable to meet the current demand.
For nearly a decade we have strived to create a professional, relaxed, welcoming atmosphere for both clients and clinicians, alike. We value the well-being of our clinicians and believe they deserve the same attention we provide our clients.
We offer a comfortable and inviting workspace with a reception area, fully furnished offices, and a separate exit for a private client departure. We are located across from Sunnyside Mall and conveniently near the intersection of the Bedford Highway and Dartmouth Rd. We are near a bus route and have access to free parking on-site.
What We Can Offer You:
Autonomy of private practice without the stress of operating a business.
Competitive compensation with opportunity to increase over time.
Optional extended health, dental, and vision benefits package for personal and family plans.
Education and training allowance.
Flexible work schedule: you choose when and how often you work, including vacation schedule.
Hybrid work schedules available (in-person + virtual).
Full time Practice Director who manages all the office operations, administration tasks, and provides practice-related IT services.
Part-time hours to those seeking to supplement current income or wanting to broaden clinical experiences. Whether currently working in a hospital or community setting or another private practice, we are happy to accommodate clinicians’ existing working hours.
Wide variety of referral types, allowing for caseload balance as well as the option to specialize. We provide our clinicians with client referrals that match their individual interests and competencies.
Supportive collegial environment that focuses on clinician well-being, job satisfaction, and work/life balance.
Mentorship and guidance for early career clinicians.
Clinicians have autonomy to work independently or engage in supervision. Peer supervision/consultation is encouraged and occurs on an as-needed basis with the practice partners.
Qualifications:
Masters or Doctoral Degree in Psychology, Social Work, or Counselling Therapy.
Registered (Full or Provisional) with either the Nova Scotia Regulator of Psychology, the Nova Scotia College of Social Workers, or the Nova Scotia College of Counselling Therapists.
Proof of Liability Insurance
Proficient in assessing and treating a variety of mental health conditions and adjustment concerns (e.g., anxiety, depression, self-esteem, grief, anger management, etc.).
Demonstrates awareness for one’s clinical scope of practice, recognizing what falls outside of that scope.
Provide contact information for three professional references (if requested)
Interested clinicians should contact us directly by email at info@sunnysidepsychological.com.
Published in Career Opportunities
Join Our Team at Rainbow Tree Psychology
Published: May 20, 2026May 25, 2026 • 1 minute read
We are looking for Full/Part-Time Associates (in office/virtual options) to join our growing practice.
At Rainbow Tree Psychology, we are motivated to provide clients and clinicians with a warm, empowering, and collaborative space for healing and growth. Associates will have the opportunity to work independently and in collaboration with other skilled professionals providing high quality care to our clients. Our clinic values respect and teamwork, ensuring that everyone’s input is important. Whether you are with us full time, or are supplementing another workspace, you will be encouraged to operate your practice in the way that best suits your skills, values, and work-life balance.
• Access to a therapeutic space that has been thoughtfully curated to attend to the needs of our associates and clients.
• Administrative support for all billing, scheduling, and intake needs.
• Fair contractor split.
• Opportunities for collaboration, consultation, and support from our team, regular access to the practice owner, and ongoing growth opportunities through professional development.
• Access to a well-established referral network.
If you are interested in joining our practice, or would like to learn more, please email your CV and at least two references to admin@rainbowtreepsychology.ca.
https://rainbowtreepsychology.ca/join-our-team
Published in Career Opportunities
Offering Wellness Clinical Rooms
Published: April 23, 2026April 23, 2026 • 1 minute read
Beech Street Health Centre
heather@beechstreethealth.ca
https://www.beechstreethealth.ca/medical-consultation-suites
Offering Wellness Clinical Rooms
Are you a family doctor, nurse practitioner, dietitian, social worker, pharmacist, occupational therapist, or mental health professional looking for additional or temporary working solutions?
We’re thrilled to support healthcare providers looking to explore flexible working options or expand their practice. We offer cozy, confidential spaces that stimulate healing and community collaboration. With thoughtfully designed therapy rooms that foster a nurturing environment, we invite you to join a supportive network of professionals.
If you’re interested in learning more about how we can meet your additional or temporary working needs, please reach out!
Best regards,
Heather Stone
Halifax NS
Published in Career Opportunities
Registered Psychologist Opportunities (Full-Time & Part-Time) Dartmouth, Nova Scotia
Published: April 8, 2026June 2, 2026 • 2 minute read
Carleen Hall Psychological Services 250 Baker Drive Suite 235, Dartmouth, NS B2W 4L6Phone: 902 406-7413 Fax: (902) 406-7414
Registered Psychologist Opportunities (Full-Time & Part-Time)
Dartmouth, Nova Scotia
We are seeking Registered (or eligible for registration) Psychologists to join our well-established, growing private practice in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia. Serving the community since 2012, our practice has built a strong reputation for providing high-quality, client-centered psychological services in a collaborative and supportive environment.
We are currently hiring for:
Full-Time Position (approx. 20 clinical hours/week)
Part-Time Position (approx. 10 clinical hours/week)
About the Practice
Our team offers a variety of evidence-based psychological services to meet the needs of children, youth families and adults. We value professionalism, collegiality, and a healthy work-life balance. Full time administrative support and referral streams are well established, allowing clinicians to focus on clinical work.
Responsibilities
Provide psychological assessment and/or therapy services
Maintain accurate and timely clinical documentation
Collaborate with a multidisciplinary team as needed
Adhere to ethical and professional standards set by the NSBEP
Qualifications
Registered (or eligible for registration) with the Nova Scotia Board of Examiners in Psychology (NSBEP)
Strong clinical skills in assessment and/or intervention
Experience working with diverse populations is an asset
Ability to work independently and as part of a team
What We Offer
Established referral base
Flexible scheduling
Administrative and billing support
Collegial and supportive team environment
Competitive compensation structure
Ideal Candidate
We are looking for a motivated, ethical, and collaborative psychologist who is committed to providing high-quality care and contributing to a positive team culture.
To Apply
Please submit your CV and a brief cover letter outlining your clinical experience and areas of interest.
If you are interested in joining our clinic, please email your CV to Carleenhall@eastlink.ca
We thank all applicants for their interest; however, only those selected for an interview will be contacted.
Published in Career Opportunities
Full-Time/Part-Time Opportunity at Affirming Psychology
Published: November 17, 2025 • 2 minute read
Join Our Team at Affirming Psychology:
We are looking for Part-Time and Full-Time Associates to join Affirming Psychology (affirmingpsychology.ca).
Part-Time Associates see about 5 to 15 clients per week
Full-Time Associates see about 20+ clients per week
For Associates primarily completing psychodiagnostic assessments, expected direct client hours are adjusted
We are dedicated to creating an encouraging and collaborative environment for clinicians, including providing support and making sure your practice is sustainable. Ways we do this are by offering a 75/25 split with our associates, and focusing on reasonable caseloads that prioritize the quality of care over volume. The ideal candidate would be highly trained in several treatment modalities, ethically and community minded, and committed to creating a safe space for marginalized people.
Qualifications
Licensed in Nova Scotia either as a Clinical Psychologist (Candidate Register or Registered), MSW-Clinical Specialist, or Registered Counselling Therapist
Trained in at least two different treatment modalities (e.g., DBT, EMDR, EFT)
We are open to having Associates work with any population.
Benefits of Joining Affirming Psychology
75/25 split for Associates
Access to a well-established referral network
Full time admin support for all billing, scheduling, and intake needs
Collaborative work space, monthly peer consultation meetings
Ongoing professional development opportunities
Thoughtfully designed office with access and sensory needs in mind
Flexible work hours – Daytime, evenings, weekends
Our practice is located within a mid-size business building which largely rents to other health professionals. We offer free parking to Associates and clients, the building has an elevator and accessible entrances, and we are conveniently located near Dartmouth General Hospital. When designing our office space, we focused on sound proofing our walls and ceiling, and creating a sensory friendly space for clients and clinicians. Associates joining our practice have the option to have their office fully furnished and decorated by Affirming Psychology or furnishing the office themselves. We offer services in-person or virtually to clients.
We also offer our Associates monthly peer consultation meetings along with other professional developmental opportunities, such as study groups and presentations from other health professionals and organizations. At Affirming Psychology, you would have access to a Full-Time Practice Administrator that would manage intakes and your wait list, complete billing for clients, including direct insurance billing when available, manage communication with major Insurance companies, and provide scheduling support.
If you are interested in joining our practice, please email your CV and at least two references to admin@affirmingpsych.ca.
Published in Career Opportunities
Dr. Daniel Chorney & Associates Psychological Services
Published: October 8, 2025October 8, 2025 • 2 minute read
POSITION: 1. Part-Time Psychologist – ~6–8 billable hours/week and 2. Full-Time Psychologist – ~15–20+ billable hours/week (or more if you’d like) ORGANIZATION: Dr. Daniel Chorney & Associates Psychological Services
LOCATION: Halifax, Nova Scotia
We’re a collaborative private practice offering evidence-based psychological services to children, teens, and adults in Halifax and across Nova Scotia. We believe you do your best work when you feel supported, respected, and empowered to grow.
Read more “Dr. Daniel Chorney & Associates Psychological Services”
Published in Career Opportunities
Full-time or Part-time Psychologist – Piers & Associates Psychological Services Inc
Published: September 19, 2025 • 2 minute read
POSITION: Full-time or Part-time Psychologist
ORGANIZATION: Piers & Associates Psychological Services Inc.
LOCATION: Truro, Nova Scotia
Piers & Associates, a thriving private practice located centrally in the heart of Truro, is seeking a dedicated Psychologist to join our team on a full- or part-time basis. As a trusted name in mental healthcare, Piers & Associates is committed to delivering high-quality psychological services and results.
The ideal candidate would have the following qualifications:
Master’s or Doctoral degree in Psychology from an accredited program;
Registered, Candidate Registered, or eligibility for registration, with the Nova Scotia Regulator of Psychology; and
Proficiency in evidence-based assessment and treatment
As a Piers & Associates team member, you will benefit from:
Compensation that recognizes your expertise: We recognize that you have worked hard for your credentials, and we’ve built our compensation model to reflect the value of your work!
Maximum autonomy: You choose your own practice, your way. This includes hours, vacation, clientele, treatment approach, etc.
Supportive work environment: We practice open-door leadership and provide consultation, as requested.
Support to build your caseload: We will actively support you in attracting clients by providing introductory services, referrals, marketing, etc. You will have access to our electronic booking system and integrated virtual platform.
Access to our thoughtfully designed space: We operate on the entire main floor of a former residential home. There is access to an inviting waiting area, kitchen, and a private furnished therapy room. Our space includes an outdoor deck, ideal for taking breaks and recharging during the warmer months. Free on-site parking included.
Our contracts are free from non-compete clauses and other restrictions commonly found within the industry. As a dedicated associate, should you choose to eventually explore the possibility of your own practice, we will help support you in the process!
Visit www.piersandassociates.com to learn more about Piers & Associates and our existing team members.
If you think you may be interested in joining our team or would like a tour of our office space, please contact Tammy Piers, Owner, at Tammy.Piers@piersandassociates.com. We look forward to hearing from you.
Published in Career Opportunities
Dr S. Gerald Hann Psychological Services
Published: September 15, 2025September 19, 2025 • 2 minute read
POSITION: Psychologist
ORGANIZATION: Dr S. Gerald Hann Psychological Services
LOCATION: Halifax, Nova Scotia
Dr. S Gerald Psychological Services are presently seeking qualified applicants to work as contract psychologists at our practice. We have immediate opportunities for clinical, school and counselling psychologists to provide services across the lifespan.
Read more “Dr S. Gerald Hann Psychological Services”
Published in Career Opportunities
Associate Psychologist Position Available – Aulakh Psychological
Published: August 8, 2025August 25, 2025 • 3 minute read
POSITION: Registered or Candidate Registered Psychologist and Clinical Social Workers
ORGANIZATION: Aulakh Psychological & Counselling Services
LOCATION: Central Halifax, Nova Scotia
Join Our Dynamic Team at Aulakh Psychological and Counselling Services
We are a well-established and vibrant practice located in central Halifax, Nova Scotia. We offer psychological services to a diverse range of clients, including children, adolescents, adults, couples, families, veterans, first responders, and individuals from various communities.
A Good Fit is Key for Everyone:
We are seeking qualified Registered Psychologists, Candidate Registrars, and Clinical Social Workers to join our team. We are looking for client-focused candidates who enjoy collaborating with clients and other healthcare professionals. The ideal candidates will be warm, ethically minded, and show fundamental respect for every client. Applicants must be a Registered Psychologist or Candidate Registrar in good standing in the province of Nova Scotia. We offer flexible hours, and both part-time and full-time applicants are welcome to apply.
Our Practice Environment:
Our practice is centrally located in the North End of Halifax within the Gladstone Professional Building, offering free parking for both clients and associates. We support people with accessibility needs (e.g., those using wheelchairs). In our main waiting area, clients can enjoy herbal tea or water while they relax before their appointments. Our lobby and offices are spaciously furnished to comfortably accommodate in-person services. Our telepsychology platforms also enable us to serve clients remotely. Additionally, we provide a kitchenette and a back entrance through the kitchen for the convenience of our associates.
Our Workplace Dynamics:
We strive to cultivate a highly supportive team environment. Given the nature of our work, we hold regular peer consultation meetings, social events, ad-hoc consultations between clinicians, and provide training opportunities to support professional development. Our practice encourages and supports ongoing professional training and consultation.
Our Associates:
The health and well-being of our team members are of great importance to us. In line with this value, our associates have the flexibility to work on-site or off-site and can choose how many clients they wish to support. We have a steady source of referrals and offer new full- or part-time associates the opportunity to build a client base that suits their pace. Additionally, anyone who joins our team will have the option to participate in our group health plan if they choose.
Administrative Support:
We employ a full-time Practice Administrator and a part-time Administrative Assistant, ensuring comprehensive administrative support. This includes direct billing to key insurance companies for clients who cannot afford to pay upfront, reducing barriers for some. Our administrative team allows practice associates to focus on client care, handling bookings, billing, insurance, and other administrative tasks. We also provide an online calendaring and charting system for efficiency.
We ask any interested care providers to forward your information in confidence to:
Aulakh Psychological and Counselling Service Inc.
305-6155 North Street, Halifax, NS B3K 5R3
Phone: 902-490-0090 ~ Fax: 902-490-0099
Email: info@aulakhpsychology.ca
Website: https://www.aulakhpsychology.ca/
Published in Career Opportunities
Mindful Therapies, Inc.
Published: July 30, 2025September 19, 2025 • 2 minute read
POSITION: Full or Part-time Psychologist
ORGANIZATION: Mindful Therapies
LOCATION: Kentville, Nova Scotia
Full or Part-Time Psychologist Position Opening
Mindful Therapies Inc. is now recruiting Psychologists (Registered or Candidate Register) who wish to join our practice in Kentville, Nova Scotia.
Looking for a highly motivated, passionate psychologist who values independence, high quality service delivery and a peaceful calm work environment.
Read more “Mindful Therapies, Inc.”
Published in Career Opportunities
True North Psychological Services
Published: July 25, 2025July 25, 2025 • 3 minute read
POSITION: Psychologists
ORGANIZATION: True North Psychological Services
LOCATION: Nova Scotia
True North Psychological Services is a team of mental health professionals including Psychiatrists, Psychologists, and Clinical Social Workers.
Read more “True North Psychological Services”
Published in Career Opportunities
Posts pagination
1 2 … 7 ▸
Recent Publications
Disability Support Outreach Team (DSOT)
POSITIONS AVAILABLE: Psychologist, Social Worker & Counsellor
Join Our Team at Rainbow Tree Psychology
Offering Wellness Clinical Rooms
Registered Psychologist Opportunities (Full-Time & Part-Time) Dartmouth, Nova Scotia
Publication Categories
Announcements
Awards
BMS News
Career Opportunities
Events
External Workshops and Events
Initiatives
News
Newsletters
Policy Statements
Reports
Webinars
Association of Psychologists of Nova Scotia
604-5657 Spring Garden Road
Lobby box 142
Halifax NS B3J 3R4
Association of Psychologists of Nova Scotia
902 422-9183
apns@apns.ca
Visit with us on Facebook
Connect with us on Instagram
Connect with us on LinkedIn
Connect with us on Bluesky
© 2026 Association of Psychologists of Nova Scotia
Insert/edit link
Close
Enter the destination URL
URL
Link Text
Open link in a new tab
Or link to existing content
Search
No search term specified. Showing recent items. Search or use up and down arrow keys to select an item.
Cancel