News - MCSW
Skip to Content...
Home
About
Purpose
Legislation
Affiliate Memberships
Indigenous Advisory Circle
Board of Directors
Leadership Team
Committees & Working Groups
Advertising
Applicants
Application Process
Accredited BSW/MSW from Canada or USA
Approved Programs – Booth
RSW in Another Canadian Jurisdiction
International Social Work Degree
Other Degree – Substantial Equivalency
Social Work Student
Corporation
Temporary
Members
Responsibilities and Benefits
Practicing
Non-Practicing
Students
Corporations
Code and Standards
Practice Guidance
Continuing Competence (CCP)
Registration Renewal
Complaints & Conduct
Protection of the Public
Complaints Process
Duty to Report
Inquiry Hearings
Decisions
Resource Hub
Board Policies
Board Meeting Minutes
Annual Reports
Committee/Working Group TOR
News & Events
News
Events
Contact
Member Portal
Clear Lake, Treaty No. 2: A colourful sunrise lights up the sky over the lake in Riding Mountain National Park in Western Manitoba.
News & Events News
Notice of Election and Call for Nominations
Posted July 17, 2026
MCSW Board of Directors The Manitoba College of Social Workers (MCSW) welcomes nominations for its Board of Directors. MCSW values a broad range of perspectives, experiences, backgrounds and representation. We are committed to fostering practices that reflect equity, inclusion and diversity in our governance structure and welcome submissions from member, student and public representatives. MCSW
Read More
MCSW Education Event – Exhibitors and Sponsors
Posted June 22, 2026
The annual Manitoba College of Social Workers Education Event is scheduled for Wednesday, October 21, 2026 at the Victoria Inn Hotel and Conference Centre in Winnipeg. This full-day event offers an exciting opportunity to showcase your organization’s support of the social work profession while gaining valuable exposure within the community. We would be honored to feature
Read More
Keeping the Fires Burning
Posted June 22, 2026
Members of the MCSW Indigenous Advisory Circle, Board of Directors, and staff attended the 25th Anniversary of Keeping the Fires Burning hosted by Ka Ni Kanichihk & Sakihiwewin Foundation at the RBC Convention Centre. The event celebrates and recognizes individuals who have made meaningful contributions to their communities by fostering connections, preserving and sharing language,
Read More
PC Leader Delivers Apology to MB Social Workers
Posted May 20, 2026
President Jennifer Meixner and MCSW Executive Director/Registrar Barb Temmerman met with Opposition Leader Obby Khan at the Manitoba Legislative Building on May 19, 2026. MLA Jeff Bereza and MLA Lauren Stone also joined the discussion. Read more to view Mr. Khan’s public message following the meeting. Read More…
Read More
MCSW in the Community – Thompson
Posted May 08, 2026
MCSW was honoured to gather in Treaty 5 territory May 4 & 5, 2026 for the annual Member Appreciation Event and MKO’s Red Dress Day awareness walk and ribbon ceremony. Read More…
Read More
Advancing the Profession: A Call for Recognition, Regulation and Integration
Posted May 01, 2026
As recognition grows for the essential role of social workers, now is the time to align policy, regulation, and workforce planning to reflect that reality. MCSW’s latest Call to Action advocates for stronger integration of social workers to strengthen systems of care for Manitobans. Read More…
Read More
Advocacy for the Profession
Posted March 31, 2026
MCSW Highlights the Value of Social Workers in Mental Health Care March 31, 2026: In response to remarks made in the Manitoba Legislature on March 26, 2026 regarding social workers and their role in responding to individuals experiencing mental health crises, MCSW sent an Open Letter to Obby Khan, Manitoba Leader of Opposition. https://www.youtube.com/live/oDfSr3nKd_Q?si=evgwCyYLcCT-QmjI –
Read More
CASW Distinguished Service Award Recipient
Posted March 04, 2026
MCSW is pleased to announce that Jennifer Whalen, BSW, RSW is the Manitoba Recipient of the 2025 CASW Distinguished Service Award! Jennifer Whalen’s career is a profound example of her commitment to life promotion, mental health advocacy and Social Work practice in the North and demonstrates her dedication to fostering environments where individuals, families and communities can
Read More
2025 Annual General Meeting Highlights
Posted October 27, 2025
The virtual Annual General Meeting was held October 30, 2025. Highlights included a review of the 2024-2025 financials, the fee adjustment, the President’s report and a presentation from Indigenous Strategy Alliance. Watch a recording of the AGM Review the AGM slideshow Download the MCSW 2024-2025 Annual Report
Read More
2025 Education Event Highlights
Posted October 14, 2025
MCSW held the 2025 Education Event on October 9 at the Victoria Inn Winnipeg. For the first time, the event was hybrid and participants joined in person and online. Overview of the agenda and CCP eligible activities: Opening – Grandmother Deborah TacanEligible for 0.5 Content-Specific Hours in SW with Indigenous Peoples Keynote: Strong Hearts, Strong FamiliesMichael
Read More
Older Articles
We acknowledge that Manitoba College of Social Workers is located on Treaty 1 Territory and that Manitoba is located on the ancestral lands of the Anishnaabeg, Anishininewuk, Dakota Oyate, Denesuline and Nehethowuk Nations and the National Homeland of the Red River Metis. We further acknowledge that northern Manitoba includes lands that were and are the ancestral lands of the Inuit.
We honour the enduring presence and resilience of Indigenous Peoples and acknowledge the truths of the past and ongoing harms of colonization. As visitors on this land, we are committed to respectful relationships, ongoing learning, and actions that support truth, reconciliation, and justice.
Full Version
This webpage contains information and content from third parties that is subject to change and not monitored by MCSW. A resource listing does not constitute or imply endorsement or favouring by MCSW, its directors or its employees.
©2024 Manitoba College of Social Workers - All Rights Reserved | privacy policy
Website Design by ViewSource