The Psychological Association of Manitoba
Contact Us | RIMS Login
Search
Verify a Member
Applicants Full Registration
Applicants Temporary/Courtesy Registration
Internationally Educated Applicants
News & Announcements
Members of the public
Act and By-Laws
Annual Reports
Areas of Practice
Complaints and Appeals
Committees
Council
Discipline & Hearings
Fee Schedule for Psychologists
Practice Resources
Truth & Reconcilliation
Members of the Association
Act and By-Laws
Annual Reports
Areas of Practice & Populations
Complaints and Appeals
Continuing Education
Committees
Council
Discipline & Hearings
Exam Information
Fee Schedule for Psychologists
Health Equity/Cultural Humility
Inactive/Resignation
Newsletters/E-Bulletins
Practice Resources
Supervisory Forms
Telepsychology Nunavut/Sask
Telepsychology Standard
Truth & Reconcilliation
Applicants
International Applicants
Online Payment
Registration and Exam Info
News and Announcements
April 14th 2025
The Hearing convening at 360 Main Street, 30th Floor, Winnipeg, Manitoba (the offices
of MLT Aikins LLP) on April 15, 2025 at 10:00 a.m. has been moved to April 16 at the same place and time.
March 14th 2025
Notice of Hearing
January 9th 2025
Notice of Hearing
January 8th 2025
2025 AGM & Notice of Election
September 23rd 2021
Notice: False Facebook Account Impersonating Dr. Rebecca Broder
As the regulatory body for the practice of psychology, the Psychological Association of Manitoba is responsible for ensuring that the public can trust the profession of psychology and to feel assured that they can receive psychological services safely and competently. Recently, we learned of a Facebook page that espouses racist and anti-indigenous views that gives the appearance of being the Facebook page of a Registered Psychologist (Dr. Rebecca Broder). Dr. Broder has contacted us to state that this webpage was not created by her, that she unequivocally rejects the views stated in it, and that she has contacted the police. This Facebook page also does not accurately indicate her current office address. Dr. Broder has extensive experience providing psychological services to members of the indigenous community in Manitoba and she is a respected member of the psychology community. We are satisfied that this Facebook page was made by someone else who misrepresented themselves as Dr. Broder. We strongly denounce these racist views and acknowledge the harm they cause.
April 5th 2021
February 22, 2021 Dr. Richard Shore Surrender of Registration
The full Resolution and Order is available in the Disciplinary Findings section of the website. https://www.cpmb.ca/reprimand.php
April 27th 2019
Please click on the links below to access the 2019 AGM powerpoint presentations:
Friesen 2019 AGM Presentation
Rothman 2019 AGM Presentation
October 22nd 2017
To assist PAM Registrants in addressing concerns over Medical Assistance in Dying (MAiD) Legislation and their responsibilities under that legislation, a Practice Advisory has been created and can be found here:
Medical Assistance in Dying Practice Advisory
Please contact the Registrar with any further questions or concerns you may have.
Copyright 2014 The Psychological Association of Manitoba | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Contact Us