News | Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia
Skip to main content
Home | Sitemap | Contact Us
Home
About
Reports and Court Decisions
Tools & Guidance
For the Public
For Public Bodies and Municipalities
For Health Custodians
News and Events
Links
Contact Us
Receive Emails
Proactive Disclosure
Archives
Joint Resolutions and Statements
Publicly Issued Reports
You are here
Home » News and Events
News
Nov 20, 2025
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Canada’s privacy regulators call for strong protection of children’s privacy in the development and use of educational technologies
As Canada marks National Child Day, privacy authorities from across the country have issued a joint resolution to help ensure that privacy rights and the best interests of children are paramount in the development, procurement, and deployment of educational technologies (EdTech). The resolution was unanimously adopted at the annual meeting of Canada’s information and privacy regulators in Banff, Alberta, on October 8, 2025, hosted by the Information and Privacy Commissioner of Alberta. Read more...
Related documents:
Resolution: Protecting the privacy of children and youth in the classroom through responsible educational technologies
Provincial and territorial collaboration
Nov 05, 2025
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Canada’s Information Regulators call on their respective governments to promote a more robust information ecosystem
Gatineau, Québec, November 5, 2025 – In an era where false and misleading information can spread rapidly and influence public discourse, Canada’s Federal, Provincial, and Territorial Information Commissioners and Ombuds (FPT Information Regulators) are urging governments and public institutions to modernize access to information laws, proactively disclose records, and ensure the integrity of public information. Read more...
Related documents
Joint resolution: Trust, transparency, and democracy in an era of misinformation
News release: Canada’s information and privacy regulators wrap up meeting that focused on critical access and privacy issues facing Canadians
Oct 10, 2025
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Canada’s information and privacy regulators wrap up meeting that focused on critical access and privacy issues facing Canadians.
BANFF, ALBERTA (October 10, 2025) – Federal, provincial, and territorial information and privacy commissioners and ombuds with responsibilities under access and privacy laws have concluded their annual meeting in Banff, Alberta. The two-day meeting, hosted by the Information and Privacy Commissioner of Alberta, included discussions on a broad range of privacy and access to information issues, with a strong focus on emerging issues related to new technologies, such as the use of artificial intelligence (AI), cybersecurity risks and the protection of online data. See more...
Sep 26, 2025
September 26, 2025
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
The Information and Privacy Commissioner (“the Commissioner”) welcomes the provincial government’s decision to table legislation today that amends the province’s access and privacy laws. The Commissioner and OIPC staff have not yet completed a comprehensive review of the bill introduced today, however the Commissioner is able to offer several preliminary comments. While the Commissioner is encouraged by, and welcomes, many aspects of the proposed legislation, he has several concerns and recommendations. See more...
Sep 24, 2025
September 24, 2025
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
HALIFAX – Today, David Nurse, Nova Scotia’s Information and Privacy Commissioner, released the Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner’s (OIPC) annual report for 2024-2025. See more...
2024-2025 OIPC Annual Report
Feb 19, 2025
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Commissioner’s investigation calls for the Nova Scotia Government to take action to prevent future privacy breaches.
HALIFAX – On June 4, 2023, the Nova Scotia Government publicly announced it was subject to a global cyber security attack. Threat actors took advantage of a critical vulnerability in a software product called MOVEit, a file transfer system purchased and used by the Nova Scotia Government designed to move large amounts of data over the internet between users of the system. A vast scope of personal information, including names, social insurance numbers, addresses, educational backgrounds, personal health information and banking information was stolen by the threat actors that conducted the cyberattack. See more...
Investigation Report IR25-01
Background and Report Summary
Feb 18, 2025
MEDIA ADVISORY
Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia to release investigation report concerning the MOVEit file transfer system privacy breach
HALIFAX – On Wednesday, February 19 at 10:00 a.m., Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia Tricia Ralph will release her investigation report into the MOVEit file transfer system privacy breach caused by a cyberattack. See more...
Dec 10, 2024
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Canada’s Information Commissioners and Ombuds issue joint resolution calling for enhanced transparency in government operations
Gatineau, Québec – December 10, 2024 - In a joint resolution, Canada’s Information Commissioners and Ombuds from federal, provincial, and territorial jurisdictions are pressing their respective governments to prioritize transparency in the design and implementation of new systems, administrative processes, procedures, and governance models. This resolution reflects the need for a new standard in government operations and a collective commitment to fostering a culture of transparency and accountability across all levels of government in Canada. See more...
Related document:
Transparency by default – Information Regulators Call for a New Standard in Government Service
Nov 27, 2024
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Federal, provincial, and territorial privacy regulators address responsible information-sharing in situations involving intimate partner violence
Toronto, Ontario, November 27, 2024 - Privacy authorities across Canada have issued a joint resolution to guide the responsible disclosure of personal information in situations involving intimate partner violence (IPV). Finalized at their October annual meeting, hosted by the Information and Privacy Commissioner of Ontario, the resolution aims to empower organizations and their staff to make informed decisions about privacy, confidentiality, and public safety. See more...
Resolution: Responsible information-sharing in situations involving intimate partner violence
Information and Privacy Commissioner of Ontario hosts annual meeting of federal, provincial, and territorial information and privacy commissioners and ombuds
Sharing Information in Situations Involving Intimate Partner Violence: Guidance for Professionals
S4-Episode 5: Addressing intimate partner violence: Information sharing, trust, and privacy | Information and Privacy Commissioner of Ontario
Nov 13, 2024
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Canadian privacy regulators pass resolution to address privacy-related harms resulting from deceptive design patterns
TORONTO, ON, November 13, 2024 - Privacy regulators from across Canada have issued a joint resolution calling for action on the growing use of deceptive design patterns (DDPs) that undermine privacy rights. Passed at their October annual meeting, hosted by the Information and Privacy Commissioner of Ontario, the resolution outlines key measures for organizations to adopt privacy-first design practices. Read more...
Resolution: Identifying and mitigating harms from privacy-related deceptive design patterns
Information and Privacy Commissioner of Ontario hosts annual meeting of federal, provincial, and territorial privacy commissioners and ombuds
Jun 20, 2024
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner releases 2023-2024 Annual Report
HALIFAX - Today, Tricia Ralph, Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner, released her annual report for 2023-2024. Read more...
2023-2024 OIPC Annual Report
Feb 01, 2024
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Information and Privacy Commissioner publishes submission for the legislative review of Nova Scotia's access and privacy laws
HALIFAX - Information and Privacy Commissioner Tricia Ralph has provided her submission to the internal working group reviewing Nova Scotia's access and privacy laws. Read more...
Legislative Review Submission
Companion Reports:
Accountability for the Digital Age, Modernizing Nova Scotia's Access & Privacy Laws
2021-2022 Annual Report
Dec 08, 2023
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Canadian privacy regulators launch principles for responsible development and use of generative AI
OTTAWA, ON, December 8, 2023 - Federal, provincial and territorial privacy authorities have developed a set of principles to advance the responsible, trustworthy and privacy-protective development and use of generative artificial intelligence (AI) technologies in Canada. Read more...
Related document: Principles for responsible, trustworthy and privacy-protective generative AI technologies
Dec 07, 2023
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Information and Privacy Commissioner initiates investigation into cyber security breach of the MOVEit file transfer service
HALIFAX - Information and Privacy Commissioner Tricia Ralph has launched an investigation into the cyber security breach of the MOVEit file transfer service, announced by the Nova Scotia Government on June 4, 2023. The MOVEit file transfer service is used by multiple public bodies and health custodians, including provincial government departments, Nova Scotia Health and IWK Health. Read more...
Oct 06, 2023
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Canadian privacy regulators pass resolutions on the privacy of young people and workplace privacy
QUÉBEC, QC, October 6, 2023 - Privacy authorities from across the country are calling on their respective governments to improve privacy legislation to protect young people and employees - groups that are significantly vulnerable, each in their own way to the growing influence of digital technologies. Read more...
Joint Resolution: Putting best interests of young people at the forefront of privacy and access to personal information
Joint Resolution: Protecting Employee Privacy in the Modern Workplace
Companion Documents:
1. Putting best interests of young people at the forefront of privacy and access to personal information
2. How organizations can help protect young people online
Oct 04, 2023
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Federal, Provincial, and Territorial Information Regulators Unite in Resolution to Enhance Access to Government Information
(Quebec City, October 4, 2023) - Federal, provincial and territorial Information Commissioners and Ombudspersons, signed a joint resolution today aimed at reinforcing the public's right to access government-held information. Read more...
Joint Resolution: Facilitating Canadians' access to government records to help restore trust in our institutions
Sep 28, 2023
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner welcomes the announcement of a provincial review of Nova Scotia's access and privacy legislation
HALIFAX - Tricia Ralph, Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner, is pleased to hear that the Nova Scotia Government has announced the creation of a working group to focus on modernization of Nova Scotia's access to information and privacy laws. Updating Nova Scotia's legislation is something the Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner (OIPC) has long been advocating for. The OIPC looks forward to sharing its expertise and suggestions throughout the consultation process. Read more...
Jun 21, 2023
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Repair not repeat - Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner releases 2022-2023 Annual Report
HALIFAX - Today, Tricia Ralph, Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner, released her annual report for 2022-2023. Read more...
2022-2023 OIPC Annual Report
Feb 08, 2023
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Commissioner's investigation calls for Nova Scotia Health to take action to prevent future privacy breaches
HALIFAX - In her investigation report issued today (IR23-01), Information and Privacy Commissioner Tricia Ralph calls on Nova Scotia Health (NSH) to improve its practices to prevent employees from looking at the personal information of its patients for non-treatment purposes (commonly referred to as "snooping"). Read more...
Investigation Report IR23-01
Background and Report Summary
Oct 27, 2022
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
The time for change is now - Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner releases 2021-2022 Annual Report
HALIFAX - Today, Tricia Ralph, Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner, released her annual report for 2021-2022. Read more...
2021-2022 OIPC Annual Report
Accountability for the Digital Age Report (June 2017)
Oct 25, 2022
News Release
For immediate release
Joint resolution by federal, provincial and territorial privacy commissioners regarding the right to privacy, protection of personal information, and transparency in the digital ecosystem in Canada
HALIFAX - In a joint resolution yesterday, Canada's information and privacy regulators called on their respective governments and other stakeholders to ensure that privacy rights, the protection of personal information, and transparency are full respected throughout the design, operation, and ongoing evolution of a digital identity ecosystem in Canada. Read more...
Joint Resolution: Ensuring the Right to Privacy and Transparency in the Digital Ecosystem in Canada
Sep 21, 2022
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
Federal, Provincial and Territorial Privacy Commissioners Issue Joint Resolution on Securing Public Trust in Digital Health Communications
HALIFAX - In a joint resolution, Canada's information and privacy regulators call on health sector institutions, health providers, governments, and regulatory colleges to replace traditional fax and unencrypted email with more modern, secure and interoperable digital health communication infrastructure. Read more...
Joint Resolution: Securing Public Trust in Digital Health Communications
May 02, 2022
News Release
Privacy regulators call for legal framework limiting police use of facial recognition technology
GATINEAU, QC, May 2, 2022 - The heads of Canada's privacy protection authorities today issued a joint statement recommending legislators develop a legal framework that establishes clearly and explicitely the circumstances in which police use of facial recognition may be acceptable. Read more...
Recommended legal framework for police agencies' use of facial recognition - Joint Statement by Federal, Provincial and Territorial Privacy Commissioners
Privacy guidance on facial recognition for police agencies
Aug 24, 2021
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
August 24, 2021
Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner releases 2020-2021 Annual Report
HALIFAX - Today, Tricia Ralph, Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner, released her annual report for 2020-2021.
The annual report outlines that the Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner (OIPC) continues to have a backlog of cases reaching back to 2017. However, the office has recently learned that it has been allocated three two-year term positions to address the backlog. These positions will be filled as soon as possible. In addition, the OIPC implemented several new processes over the past year, with a goal of improving efficiency. On this matter, Commissioner Ralph notes, "Our number one priority is to reduce the backlog. With these new resources and with the changes to our internal processes, I am confident we have the tools to address our backlog in a meaningful way." Read more...
2020-2021 Annual Report
Jun 02, 2021
News release
Federal, Provincial and Territorial Information and Privacy Commissioners and Ombudsman Issue Joint Resolution About Privacy and Access to Information Rights During and After a Pandemic
June 2, 2021 - In a joint resolution, Canada's Information and Privacy regulators called on their respective governments to respect Canadians' quasi-constitutional rights to privacy and access to information. The regulators took note of the serious impact the COVID-19 pandemic has had on the right of access to information and privacy rights in Canada and called on governments to use the lessons learned during the pandemic to improve these rights. Read more...
Joint Resolution: Reinforcing Privacy and Access to Information Rights During and After a Pandemic
May 19, 2021
News release
Vaccine passports must meet highest level of privacy protection
May 19, 2021 - Privacy should be front and centre as governments and businesses consider COVID-19 vaccine passports as a tool to help Canadians return to daily normal life, say Canada's privacy guardians. Read more...
Joint Statement by Federal, Provincial and Territorial Privacy Commissioners: Privacy and COVID-19 Passports
Apr 12, 2021
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
April 12, 2021
Privacy Commissioner initiates investigation into potential breach of inmate privacy by an employee of the Department of Justice's Correctional Services
HALIFAX - Information and Privacy Commissioner Tricia Ralph has launched an investigation following a news report alleging that an employee of the Department of Justice's Correctional Services recorded a video of an inmate and shared it to a social media platform along with comments that included the sensitive personal information of the inmate. Read more...
Nov 06, 2020
2020 Maritime Connections Conference: November 17-19, 2020
We are pleased to be participating in the virtual 2020 Maritime Connections Conference presented by the Public Service Information Community Connection (PSICC). The conference features many incredible speakers, including experts from our own office: Commissioner Ralph, our executive director and senior investigator. You can follow updates about the conference on Twitter @MaritimeAP / #MaritimeConnect. Full details here: 2020 Maritime Connections Conference
Aug 07, 2020
​NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
​August 7, 2020
​HALIFAX - Information and Privacy Commissioner Tricia Ralph has launched an investigation following the recent disclosure of multiple instances of employees accessing medical records without valid reason at the Nova Scotia Health Authority. Read more...
Jul 15, 2020
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
July 15, 2020
Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner releases 2019-2020 Annual Report
HALIFAX - Today, Tricia Ralph, Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner, released her annual report for 2019-2020.
The Commissioner once again calls for modernization of the legislation. "Updates to the legislation are urgently needed. Work is required to implement modern legislation that can better protect the access and privacy rights of Nova Scotians," says Commissioner Ralph. Nova Scotia was an early adopter of access and privacy legislation but it has fallen behind its counterparts in other Canadian jurisdictions. The annual report outlines review files and inquiries from the past year that show the ongoing impact of the failure to implement past recommendations to improve Nova Scotia's access and privacy laws. Read more...
2019-2020 OIPC Annual Report
May 07, 2020
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
May 7, 2020
Joint statement by federal, provincial and territorial privacy commissioners regarding the use of contact tracing and similar apps to address covid-19
HALIFAX - In an effort to combat the spread of covid-19, government and public health authorities are looking for novel ways to use technologies to limit the pandemic. One of the tools being considered is contact tracing applications. These tools are not without risks to the right to privacy. The issues contact tracing or similar apps raise must be carefully considered before such tools are implemented. Read more...
Joint Resolution: Supporting public health, building public trust: Privacy principles for contact tracing and similar apps
Feb 28, 2020
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
February 28, 2020
Acting Information and Privacy Commissioner releases public awareness tool coinciding with release of Review Report 20-02
HALIFAX - The public awareness tool Protect Against Phishing has been published today to coincide with the public release of Review Report 20-02 to draw attention to the serious threat phishing presents. Phishing is when an attacker sends a fake message to try to get the recipient to give out sensitive information like a username and password. Read more...
Feb 05, 2020
NEWS RELEASE
For Immediate Release
February 5, 2020
New Information & Privacy Commissioner (Review Officer) Appointed
HALIFAX - Nova Scotia's Office of the Information & Privacy Commissioner welcomes the news of Tricia Ralph's appointment to fill the role of Review Officer under the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act, Part XX of the Municipal Government Act, the Privacy Review Officer Act, and the Personal Health Information Act. Read more...
Jan 28, 2020
NEWS RELEASE
For Immediate Release
January 28, 2020
Atlantic Information and Privacy Commissioners highlight implications of facial recognition technology
HALIFAX - Data Privacy Day or Data Protection Day is recognized on January 28 by provinces and territories across Canada and countries around the world. It is an internationally recognized day dedicated to creating awareness about the importance of protecting personal information. Read more...
Backgrounder: The Facts About Facial Recognition
Nov 06, 2019
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
November 6, 2019
Canada's access to information and privacy guardians urge governments to modernize legislation to better protect Canadians
GATINEAU, QC, - Information and Privacy Ombudspersons and Commissioners from across Canada are urging their governments to modernize access to information and privacy laws. Read more...
Joint Resolution: Effective privacy and access to information legislation in a data driven society
Jun 05, 2019
​NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
​June 5, 2019
25 Years of Access and Privacy Service - Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner releases 2018-2019 Annual Report
​HALIFAX - Today, Catherine Tully, Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner, released her annual report for 2018-2019. This year marks the 25th anniversary of the Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner. With the rapid development of technology and its capacity to process enormous volumes of information, particularly personal information, a watchdog for access to information and privacy rights has never been more necessary. Read more...
Read the OIPC 2018-2019 Annual Report
Jun 04, 2019
​MEDIA ADVISORY
​June 4, 2019
Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia to release 2018-2019 Annual Report
​HALIFAX - On Wednesday, June 5, at 9:00 a.m., Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia Catherine Tully will release the Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia's 2018-2019 Annual Report. This will be Commissioner Tully's final Annual Report. She will retire at the end of her appointment on August 31, 2019. Read more...
Jan 15, 2019
News Release
For Immediate Release
January 15, 2019
Privacy Commissioner's investigation determines that a serious failure of due diligence led to Freedom of Information Access website privacy breaches
HALIFAX - Information and Privacy Commissioner Catherine Tully issued her investigation report today into a series of privacy breaches that plagued the Freedom of Information Access (FOIA) website in the spring of 2018. The Commissioner determines that the immediate cause of the privacy breaches was a design flaw in the FOIA website. The flaw was created by a well-known and foreseeable vulnerability that was not detected by the Department of Internal Services (Department) prior to launching the FOIA website. Ultimately, the privacy breaches were preventable and were caused by a serious failure of due diligence in the deployment of a new technology tool. Read more...
Jan 14, 2019
Media Advisory
January 14, 2019
N.S. Information and Privacy Commissioner to release investigation report concerning privacy breaches of the Department of Internal Services Freedom of Information Access website
HALIFAX - On Tuesday, January 15, 2019, at 8:30 a.m., Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia Catherine Tully will release an investigation report concerning privacy breaches of the Department of Internal Services Freedom of Information access website. Read more...
Nov 13, 2018
​Media Advisory
November 13, 2018
​Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia to release 2017-2018 Annual Report
​​HALIFAX - On Wednesday, November 14, at 9:00 a.m., Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia Catherine Tully will release the Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia's 2017-2018 Annual Report. Read more...
Sep 17, 2018
​News Release
Canada's Access to Information and Privacy Guardians Call for Privacy Regulation and Oversight of Political Parties
Regina, SK, September 17, 2018​ - In a joint resolution, Canada's Information and Privacy Ombudspersons and Commissioners have called on governments to pass legislation requiring political parties to comply with globally recognized privacy principles, to provide Canadians with access to the personal information they hold about them, and to provide for independent oversight to verify and enforce privacy compliance. Read more...
Joint resolution: Securing Trust and Privacy in Canada's Electoral Process
Aug 01, 2018
NEWS RELEASE & BACKGROUNDER
For immediate release
August 1, 2018
Commissioner's investigation identifies critical vulnerabilities in the e-health system
HALIFAX - In two privacy breach investigation reports issued today, Catherine Tully, Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner, determines that monitoring of electronic personal health information databases is a critical vulnerability in the province. As a result, intrusion into the private lives of patients is a real and present danger. Read more...
Read Investigation Report IR18-01
Read Investigation Report IR18-02
Jul 31, 2018
MEDIA ADVISORY
July 31, 2018
N.S. Information and Privacy Commissioner to release two investigation reports concerning privacy breaches of the Nova Scotia Drug Information System
HALIFAX - On Wednesday, August 1, 2018, at 10:00 a.m., Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia Catherine Tully will release two investigation reports concerning privacy breaches of the provincial Drug Information System. Read more...
Apr 11, 2018
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
April 11, 2018
Privacy Commissioner initiates investigation into breach of government's access to information web portal
HALIFAX - Information and Privacy Commissioner Catherine Tully has launched an investigation into the recently announced breach of the government's access to information web portal. Read more...
Oct 12, 2017
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
October 12, 2017
HALIFAX - Inadequate passwords and insufficient technical controls led to video surveillance images of schoolchildren being live streamed on the internet, says Catherine Tully, Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner, in a new report issued today. Read more...
Oct 11, 2017
MEDIA ADVISORY
October 11, 2017
N.S. Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia to release investigation report about video surveillance in Nova Scotia schools
HALIFAX - On Thursday, October 12, at 10:00 a.m., Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia Catherine Tully will release an investigation report concerning the disclosure of video surveillance footage from a Cape Breton school. Read more...
Sep 26, 2017
NEWS RELEASE
For Immediate Release
September 26, 2017
Nova Scotia access to information pioneer Darce Fardy wins national award
HALIFAX - Today, former Review Officer Darce Fardy was awarded the Grace-Pépin Award, recognizing his tireless advocacy for Nova Scotians' access to information rights. Nova Scotia's current Information and Privacy Commissioner, Catherine Tully, extends her congratulations. Read more...
Jun 27, 2017
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
June 27, 2017
Time to modernize - Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner releases 2016-2017 Annual Report
HALIFAX - Today, Catherine Tully, Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner, released her annual report for 2016-2017. As part of the report, Tully includes 34 recommendations to strengthen and modernize Nova Scotia's access and privacy laws.
"The digital age is upon us and our laws are quite simply no longer up to the task," Tully says in the report. "Significant improvements are required to bring our access and privacy rights into the 21st century." Read more...
2016-2017 OIPC Annual Report
Companion Report: Accountability for the Digital Age
Jun 26, 2017
MEDIA ADVISORY
June 26, 2017
Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia to release 2016-2017 Annual Report and recommendations for modernizing Nova Scotia's access and privacy laws.
HALIFAX - On Tuesday, June 27, at 9:00 a.m., Information and Privacy Commissioner Catherine Tully will release her 2016-2017 Annual Report. As part of the report, Commissioner Tully will also release a companion report that makes recommendations for modernizing Nova Scotia's access and privacy laws.
The reports will be available for download at 9:00 a.m. on Tuesday, June 27 at oipc.novascotia.ca.
A news release will be issued summarizing the report. More
Dec 06, 2016
NEWS RELEASE
HALIFAX - Today Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner, Catherine Tully, joined with all her federal and provincial colleagues to make a formal submission to the federal government's public consultation on Canada's national security framework.
The submission calls for effective oversight as well as reasonable and proportionate rules for investigating agencies. The ability of the national security aparatus to intrude on on Nova Scotians' privacy is significant, and the call for effective safeguards can help protect Nova Scotians' privacy rights.
The submission underscores issues with significant implications for the privacy of Canadians, including the collection and use of metadata by national security agencies as well as law enforcement; encryption; and information sharing by government. It also stresses the importance of transparency reporting and effective oversight, particularly for institutions not currently subject to expert review. The full submission is available on the website of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada: http.www.priv.gc.ca/en
Read the full submission here: Consultation on Canada's National Security Framework
Nov 23, 2016
NEWS RELEASE
November 23, 2016
Commissioner's investigation determines that faxing failures put sensitive mental health information at risk.
HALIFAX - Three separate breaches of sensitive mental health information have led Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner, Catherine Tully, to call for improvements in how the health system transmits personal health information. In a new report issued today, the Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner (OIPC) examined three separate incidents in 2015 and 2016 in which mental health referral forms were mistakenly faxed to a private business. The report draws attention to the obligations private practice physicians and the Nova Scotia Health Authority (NSHA) have to ensure that personal health information in their control is transmitted carefully. Read more...
Read Investigation Report IR16-02
Nov 22, 2016
MEDIA ADVISORY
November 22, 2016
N.S. Information and Privacy Commissioner to release investigation report about mental health information privacy breaches
HALIFAX - On Wednesday, November 23, at 10:00 a.m., Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia Catherine Tully will release an investigation report concerning the accidental disclosure of sensitive mental health information by fax.
The Commissioner launched an investigation after learning that mental health referral forms had been repeatedly faxed in error to a Bedford business. Read more...
Sep 27, 2016
For immediate release
September 27, 2016
Commissioner issues new instant messaging guide
HALIFAX - It is International Right to Know Week, and so Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner, Catherine Tully, has issued guidance to help ensure citizens continue to have a meaningful right to access government information.
Smartphones, instant messaging and personal email accounts are offering government employees increasing flexibility to work from home and make decisions anywhere. This can create confusion when citizens look to exercise their access to information rights for those same records. Read more...
Instant Messaging and Personal Email Accounts Guide
Sep 26, 2016
For immediate release
September 26, 2016
Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner announces Right to Know Week Plans
HALIFAX - In celebration of Right to Know Week the Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia has partnered with the Centre for Law and Democracy and the University of King's College School of Journalism to host a public panel discussion on how well Nova Scotia's access to information law is functioning. Read more...
Right to Know Event Poster
Sep 22, 2016
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
September 22, 2016
Privacy regulators study finds Internet of Things shortfalls
HALIFAX - Six in ten Internet of Things devices don't properly tell customers how their personal information is being used, an international study has found.
The study, by 25 data protection regulators around the world, looked at devices like smart electricity meters, internet-connected thermostats and watches that monitor health, and considered how well companies communicate privacy matters to their customers. Read more...
GPEN Privacy Sweep Backgrounder
Jun 28, 2016
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
June 28, 2016
HALIFAX - Official reporting suggests privacy breaches don't happen in Nova Scotia. Meaningful privacy breach notification is critical to protecting citizens' privacy rights, but Nova Scotia's public sector access and privacy laws do not require notification. Catherine Tully, Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia, has called for that to change in her office's 2015-2016 Annual Report, released today. Read more...
Read the OIPC 2015-2016 Annual Report
Mar 01, 2016
Announcement
Information Commissioners call on governments to create a duty to document
March 1, 2016 - Canada's Information Commissioners have called on their respective governments to create a legislated duty requiring public entities to document matters related to their deliberations, actions and decisions. Read more...
Link to Joint Resolution
Link to Backgrounder
Feb 23, 2016
Protecting and Promoting Canadians’ Privacy and Access Rights in Information Sharing Initiatives
February 23, 2016
CONTEXT
Governments at all levels are seeking to leverage technology, increase information sharing, integrate data and facilitate cross agency sharing of personal information to better serve citizens.
At the same time, there is a concern that increased information sharing may result in more personal information being collected, used or disclosed with little public awareness. Read more...
Feb 11, 2016
NEWS RELEASE
For Immediate Release
February 11, 2016
N.S. Information and Privacy Commissioner releases investigation report about disclosure of former cabine minister's personal information
HALIFAX - In an investigation report released today, Catherine Tully, Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner finds that the Office of the Premier was in violation of Nova Scotia's privacy law when the former Chief of Staff publicly disclosed personal information of a former cabinet minister. The report recommends changes that will strengthen and modernize the Office of the Premier's privacy controls. Read more...
Feb 10, 2016
MEDIA ADVISORY
February 10, 2016
N.S. Information and Privacy Commissioner to release investigation report about disclosure of former cabine minister's personal information
HALIFAX - On Thursday February 11, at 10:00 a.m., Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia Catherine Tully will release an investigation report about the disclosure of a former cabinet minister's personal information by the Office of the Premier. read more...
Sep 24, 2015
For immediate release
September 24, 2015
Halifax - Nova Scotia's Information and Privacy Commissioner announces Right to Know Week plans
Monday, September 28, kicks off Right to Know Week in over 40 countries around the world. Catherine Tully, Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia, joins them in recognizing this critical part of democratic government. Read more...
Sep 01, 2015
For immediate release
September 1, 2015
NS access and privacy oversight has a new name, new handle.
Halifax – The FOIPOP Review Office is now the NS OIPC. And we’re tweeting!
In an effort to better reflect our roles and responsibilities, the Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Office will now be known as the Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia. Read more...
Jun 11, 2015
Review Officer releases 2014-2015 Annual Report
Today Catherine Tully, Nova Scotia’s Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer, released her office’s annual report for 2014-15. In the report, Tully describes a vision of a Nova Scotia government that actively discloses vital information, and that vigorously protects the privacy of its citizens. Read more...
View the 2014-2015 Annual Report
May 12, 2015
New Time Extension Guidelines and Time Extension Request Form for Public Bodies
Time Extension Guidelines for Public Bodies
Time Extension Request Form for Public Bodies
Apr 22, 2015
Nova Scotia (Public Prosecutions Service) v. FitzGerald Estate, 2015 NSCA 38
On April 22, 2015, the Nova Scotia Court of Appeal released its decision in Nova Scotia (Public Prosecutions Service) v. FitzGerald Estate, 2015 NSCA 38.
The Court of Appeal found that the judge erred in his interpretation and application of both the discretionary exemption dealing with prosecutorial discretion [s. 15(1)(f)], and the mandatory exemption that protects third party personal information from disclosure. In addition, by importing the Stinchcombe disclosure rights into the FOIPOP Act, he committed palpable and overriding errors of fact.
Apr 10, 2015
New / Updated Publications Now Available
Mini Guide to Privacy
Miniguide sur la protection des renseignements personnels
Mini Guide to Health Information
Miniguide sur l'accès à vos renseignements médicaux
Mini Guide to Access
Miniguide sur l'accès à l'information
Mar 06, 2015
On March 4, 2015, Catherine Tully and other independent provincial and territorial prlvacy commissioners wrote to the Select Standing Committee on Public Safety. They expressed their deep concern about the far reaching implications of Bill C-51 (the Anti-terrorism Act, 2015) for the fundamental rights of Canadians. Read the letter here.
Mar 02, 2015
A privacy breach occurs whenever there is unauthorized access to or collection, use, disclosure or disposal of personal information. Such activity is unauthorized if it occurs in contravention of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (FOIPOP), the Municipal Government Act Part XX (MGA) or the Personal Health Information Act (PHIA). A guide for public bodies, municipalities and health custodians, is available in print and online below.
Key Steps to Responding to Privacy Breaches
Étapes à suivre en cas d'atteintes à la vie privée
Feb 18, 2015
Canada’s privacy and personal information protection guardians are urging law enforcement agencies across the country to carefully consider the significant risks to privacy before equipping officers with body-worn cameras.
The federal Privacy Commissioner and privacy and personal information protection Ombudspersons and Commissioners in all provinces and territories have today launched a guidance document to help law enforcement agencies develop policies and procedures governing the use of body-worn cameras.
The guidance calls on law enforcement agencies to evaluate whether the expected benefits outweigh the impact on privacy and personal information before introducing a body-worn camera program.
The guidance notes that a Privacy Impact Assessment, which can help identify and mitigate the potential risks to privacy and personal information, is a highly recommended best practice before launching a body-worn camera program. As well, law enforcement agencies can consult with data protection experts and undertake a pilot project before deploying the cameras broadly.
Other issues highlighted in the document include:
Public awareness: Law enforcement agencies should inform the public of any new body-worn camera program through local media and other outreach initiatives. As well, during recorded encounters, officers should be required to notify people of recording of images and sound whenever possible.
Guidance for the Use of Body-worn Cameras by Law Enforcement Authorities
Document d’orientation pour l’utilisation de caméras corporelles par les organismes chargées de voir au respect de la loi
Feb 03, 2015
Catherine Tully publishes an essential assessment tool for public bodies to ensure compliance with the privacy requirements set out in the Municipal Government Act (MGA). Click here: Privacy Impact Assessment of the Municipal Government Act
Feb 02, 2015
Increasingly, citizens are concerned about what happens to their personal information held by government institutions. They worry about the use of their information in new and emerging technologies, how much they can trust government with their personal information, and the impact a privacy breach might have on them. Government institutions have legal, ethical and financial obligations to get privacy right.
Getting privacy right starts with a privacy management program. An effective privacy management program ensures that programs and services build in privacy protections from the start. This document provides an at-a-glance view to help Nova Scotia Public Bodies, Municipalities and health care custodians design and implement effective privacy management programs. Access the report here.
Jan 28, 2015
Halifax – Today, data privacy authorities around the world are reminding citizens to take action to stay safe online. Nova Scotia’s Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer, Catherine Tully, joins them in marking Data Privacy Day.
Data Privacy Day is celebrated every January 28 around the world. Events around the day seek to raise awareness of the importance of valuing and protecting personal information and respecting privacy.
Read full news release here.
Dec 11, 2014
FI-09-79
Report Release Date: December 11, 2014
Summary: An applicant requested correction of three risk assessments and an investigation summary created by the Department of Community Services (the “Department”). The Department refused to make the corrections stating that its case notes were accurate. Instead, the Department annotated the file by placing a copy of the applicant’s request and its response on the applicant’s files and by placing a notation in its case management system.
The Review Officer found that the Department properly refused to make the requested corrections as the requested changes are not corrections of personal information as contemplated by s. 25(1) of the Act. The Review Officer also found that the Department’s response to the applicant was confusing as it references the accuracy of case notes and not that of the three risk assessments and investigation summary to which the applicant sought correction.
The Review Officer recommended that the Department confirm the basis for its decision as the findings relating to the three risk assessments and one investigation report; ensure that a copy of the original request for correction and the Department’s response is placed on any hard copy file containing the disputed reports; and amend the notation in the case management system indicating that there was a dispute as to the accuracy of the three risk assessments and the investigation summary and identifying the location of the correction request.
Nov 28, 2014
The Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer for Nova Scotia released her Annual Report for 2013 today. A copy of the press release is available here and you can access the report here.
Nov 27, 2014
Review Officer Catherine Tully delivered a keynote address at the Maritime Connections: 2014 Access, Privacy, Security, Records Management & Health IM Conference. In her speech she discussed her background, the Nova Scotia Access and Privacy environment, and her approach and priorities.
You can view the whole speech here.
Nov 14, 2014
Canada's Access to Information and Privacy Guardians Urge Governments to Better Protect and Promote Rights of Canadians in Digital Era
Halifax, November 14, 2014 – Information and Privacy Ombudspersons and Commissioners from across the country are urging federal, provincial and territorial governments to review and modernize their information management practices.
In a joint resolution, Canada’s access to information and privacy guardians said the digital era has brought both tremendous opportunities and new challenges for access and privacy rights. Governments, they say, must show bold leadership now more than ever to ensure the continued relevance of access to information, while still vigilantly protecting the personal information of Canadians.
The resolution was endorsed during the recent annual meeting of Information and Privacy Ombudspersons and Commissioners from federal, provincial and territorial jurisdictions across Canada.
Read full news release here.
For further information, contact:
Catherine Tully
Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer
902-424-4684
Oct 29, 2014
Statement of the Privacy and Information Commissioners of Canada on National Security and Law Enforcement Measures
OTTAWA – Nova Scotia’s Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer today joined with her Privacy and Information Commissioner colleagues at their annual meeting to note with sadness last week’s events in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec, and in Ottawa, Ontario. She, and all of Canada’s Privacy and Information Commissioners, join their voices to the thousands of Canadians in expressing their condolences to the grieving families and friends of the fallen whose duty it was to defend our rights and freedoms.
To that end, the Privacy and Information Commissioners of Canada call on the federal Government...
Read full news release here.
Oct 17, 2014
FI-11-76
Report Release Date: October 17, 2014
Summary: The Applicant sought access to a Community Services child protection file regarding his completion of two courses. Community Services was unable to locate a physical protection file but provided the Applicant with case notes from its case management system. The Review Officer found that Community Services met its duty to assist the Applicant when it conducted a second search, identified the business area searched and individuals who conducted the search, and provided some explanation for why the record did not exist. The Review Officer also found Community Services’ offer to meet with the Applicant about its process consistent with the duty to assist and recommended that Community Services take no further action in this matter.
Statutes Considered: Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (NS), s. 7(1)(a); Access to Information Act, s. 4(2.1); Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (BC), s. 6(1); Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (Manitoba), s. 9; Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (Alberta), s. 10(1).
Other Sources: Order 00-32, 2000 CanLII 14397 (BC IPC); Order PO-3386, 2014 CanLII 50833 (ON IPC); Interim Order MO-2581, 2010 CanLII 76935 (ON IPC); Donham v. Nova Scotia (Community Services) 2012 NSSC 384.
Sep 22, 2014
September 28, 2014 is International Right to Know Day. There will be various activities in most provinces and at the national level during this week.
The Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Office is participating in this Worldwide effort to raise awareness of the right to access information and its value, with a local focus on what it means to those living and working in Nova Scotia.
Jul 08, 2014
New FOIPOP Review Officer Appointed
Catherine Tully of Ottawa has been appointed Nova Scotia's new Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer.
Ms. Tully will oversee how provincial and municipal governments, school boards, universities, community colleges and hospitals protect the privacy of Nova Scotians and respond to request for access to information.
Read full News Release here
Feb 21, 2014
On February 21, 2014, the Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Office received the Department of Community Services’ response to the Review Officer’s special review report. The special report made recommendations relating to five separate requests made by former foster children for access to information about their time in care.
The special report and Community Services’ response to it does not close the five separate files, which will now return to the Review Office’s regular process. While these files are proceeding through the review process, the Review Office will keep confidential its further discussions with Community Services.
January 21, 2014 Special Report
January 23, 2014 Press Release
February 21, 2014 Community Services’ response to recommendations
Jan 31, 2014
Message from Dulcie McCallum, Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer
On January 17, 2014, I was advised by the government of Nova Scotia that it had elected not to offer me reappointment for another term as the Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy [“FOIPOP”] Review Officer which was an option available to it under the statute. Therefore I am announcing my departure from my position as Nova Scotia’s FOIPOP Review Officer is effective Tuesday February 4, 2014.
I was honoured to be appointed in 2007 as the first female FOIPOP Review Officer for Nova Scotia and in 2009 as Nova Scotia's first Privacy Review Officer. During my term, the oversight role of FOIPOP Review Officer was significantly expanded to include privacy under the Privacy Review Officer Act and access and privacy under the Personal Health Information Act. I have thoroughly enjoyed my seven year tenure in this position particularly having the support and collaboration of my Federal/ Provincial/ Territorial Access and Privacy Commissioner colleagues and being part of the effective and vibrant team at the FOIPOP Review Office.
I am most proud of how much our small team of only six people has accomplished over the past seven years: tabled six Annual Reports with the House of Assembly to which the FOIPOP Review Officer reports, received over 8,500 inquiries, opened 716 Reviews, closed 521 investigations, 314 of which were informally resolved or mediated, issued 62 public and private Review Reports, built up a body of best practices and hosted the 2012 Annual Summit of the Canadian Access and Privacy Commissioners for the first time in Nova Scotia.
My Director Ms. Carmen Stuart will be appointed as Acting FOIPOP Review Officer effective February 5, 2014. I am confident she will meet this challenge while a search is conducted for the new FOIPOP Review Officer. I trust that my team and I were able to effectively serve the access and privacy interests of Nova Scotians during this seven year period. In particular, the applicants who entrusted us with their Requests for Review and the public bodies, municipalities and health custodians who worked with my office to diligently protect the rights of access and privacy. Thank you for being given the opportunity to make a contribution to Nova Scotia’s public service.
Dec 09, 2013
Today the Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer, Dulcie McCallum released to the public Review Report FI-13-19. This Review Report was issued to Nova Scotia Public Service Long Term Disability Trust Fund on December 2, 2013. Click here to view the News Release.
Oct 09, 2013
News Release - Canada’s access to information and privacy guardians urge government to modernize laws English Français
Modernizing Access and Privacy Laws for the 21st Century - Resolution of Canada's Privacy Commissioners and Privacy Oversight Officials English Français
Sep 23, 2013
September 28, 2013 is International Right to Know Day. There will be various activities in most provinces and at the national level during this week.
The Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Office is participating in this Worldwide effort to raise awareness of the right to access information and its value, with a local focus on what it means to those living and working in Nova Scotia.
Visit the Right to Know page for more details on how the Review Office is celebrating.
Jul 24, 2013
News Release
Today the Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer, Dulcie McCallum released to the public Own-Motion Privacy Review Report P-12-05: What’s Driving Privacy in Nova Scotia? This Privacy Review Report was issued to Service Nova Scotia and Municipal Relations on July 17, 2013. Click here to view the News Release.
May 31, 2013
Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer's 2011 Annual Report was tabled in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly on April 18, 2013.
This marks the third year for the Annual Report to be distributed electronically other than those copies provided to the House of Assembly. This has been done to fulfill the Review Office’s commitments to reducing spending, providing readily accessible information at no cost to the public and to environmental sustain ability.
English and French copies of the Report can be found at https://oipc.novascotia.ca/annual-reports
Dec 07, 2012
Review Report FI-12-70 - Community Services accepts Review Officer's Recommendations
Read the full response here.
Sep 25, 2012
Review Report FI-11-43 - Service Nova Scotia and Municipal Relations responds to Review Officer's Recommendations
Read the full response here.
Sep 24, 2012
September 28, 2012 is International Right to Know Day. There will be various activities in most provinces and at the national level during this week.
The Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Office is participating in this Worldwide effort to raise awareness of the right to access information and its value, with a local focus on what it means to those living and working in Nova Scotia.
Visit the Right to Know page for more details on how the Review Office is celebrating.
May 09, 2012
Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer's 2011 Annual Report was tabled in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly on May 9, 2012.
This marks the second year for the Annual Report to be distributed electronically other than those copies provided to the House of Assembly. This has been done to fulfill the Review Office’s commitments to reducing spending, providing readily accessible information at no cost to the public and to environmental sustain ability.
English and French copies of the Report can be found at https://oipc.novascotia.ca/annual-reports
Feb 16, 2012
In keeping with the goal of promoting an integrated and cooperative approach for all Canadian commissioners, the Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer will be hosing the first official meeting in Nova Scotia of the annual federal/provincial/territorial access and privacy Commissioners/Ombudsman.
The 2012 Annual Access and Privacy Commissioners' Summit will be held in Halifax from September 4 -7, 2012. This Summit is for access and privacy Commissioners/Ombudsman and not a public event.
Feb 05, 2012
The Nova Scotia government has extended the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer Dulcie McCallum's term to February 5, 2014.
This extension encompasses the full seven year appointment contemplated by the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act for her first term as Nova Scotia's Review Officer.
Review Officer Dulcie McCallum looks forward to working with her staff to continue the important work in access to information and protection of privacy for the Province of Nova Scotia.
Order in Council
Jan 28, 2012
January 28, 2012 is Data Privacy Day. Canada and many other countries celebrate Data Privacy Day. Privacy is our shared responsibility. Check out the following links to find out more:
Privacy Commissioner of Canada http://priv.gc.ca/resource/dpd/2012/index_e.cfm
StaySafeOnline.org, National Cyber Security Alliance http://www.staysafeonline.org/dpd
Nov 18, 2011
News Release November 18, 2011
Review Officer Issues Public Report P-11-01: Recommends Changes To WCB Privacy Practices
View Privacy Review Report P-11-01
Sep 08, 2011
News Release September 8, 2011:
Halifax Regional Police Provide Records to the Freedom of Information Review Officer
Apr 01, 2011
2010 Annual Report Tabled
Today the Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer's 2010 Annual Report was tabled in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly.
This marks the first year for the Annual Report to be distributed electronically other than those copies provided to the House of Assembly. This has been done to fulfill the Review Office’s commitments to reducing spending, providing readily accessible information at no cost to the public and to environmental sustainability.
English and French copies of the Report can be found on our website at https://oipc.novascotia.ca/annual-reports
Jan 28, 2011
September 28, 2011 is International Right to Know Day. There will be various activities in most provinces and at the national level during this week.
The Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Office is participating in this Canada-wide effort to raise awareness of the right to access information and its value, with a local focus on what it means to those living and working in Nova Scotia.
The purpose of these events is to celebrate the right of Canadians, particularly Nova Scotians to access information in the possession, or under the control of public bodies as enshrined in freedom of information legislation. Such legislation reinforces the accountability of governments by ensuring they operate with transparency and openness.
The Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Office will be hosting a contest open to all Canadians. Contestants will be asked to complete a quiz testing their knowledge of Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy legislation and its applicability to certain scenarios. The winning contestant will receive a $50 Tim Hortons Gift Card.
Jan 18, 2011
News Release: Privacy Review Officer Launches Privacy Review of Workers’ Compensation Board
(January 18, 2011)
Sep 01, 2010
News Release: Access to Information and Privacy Commissioners Call for Open Government (Sept 01, 2010)
Sep 01, 2010
Right to Know Week September 27 - October 1, 2010
September 28, 2010 is International Right to Know Day. In Nova Scotia, Premier Darrell Dexter has proclaimed the week of September 27 – October 1 Right to Know Week. There will be various activities in most provinces and at the national level during this week.
The Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Office is participating in this Canada-wide effort to raise awareness of the right to access information and its value, with a local focus on what it means to those living and working in Nova Scotia.
The purpose of these events is to celebrate the right of Canadians, particularly Nova Scotians to access information in the possession, or under the control of public bodies as enshrined in freedom of information legislation. Such legislation reinforces the accountability of governments by ensuring they operate with transparency and openness.
The Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Office is supporting an event being held at the University of King’s College on September 28, 2010. Secrecy in Democracy – Freedom of Information in Nova Scotia 2010 will be the theme of this key Right to Know Week event.
The event will feature a presentation by King’s journalism professor Fred Vallance-Jones on the 2009-2010 Canadian Newspaper Association study on public sector freedom of information practices across Canada, as well as lively panel discussions involving journalists, politicians and public servants chaired by Darce Fardy, President of the Nova Scotia Right to Know Coalition. The panel discussions will focus on the state of public sector freedom of information practices and the public’s right to know under Nova Scotia’s current access to information legislation.
For more details, click here.
For more information about Right to Know events across Canada, visit www.righttoknow.ca
Sep 29, 2009
September 28, 2009 is International Right to Know Day. In Nova Scotia, Premier Darrell Dexter has proclaimed the week of September 28 – October 2 Right to Know Week. There will be various activities in most provinces and at the national level during this week.
The Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Office is participating in this Canada-wide effort to raise awareness of the right to access information and its value, with a local focus on what it means to those living and working in Nova Scotia.
The purpose of these events is to celebrate the right of Canadians, particularly Nova Scotians to access information in the possession, or under the control of public bodies as enshrined in freedom of information legislation. Such legislation reinforces the accountability of governments by ensuring they operate with transparency and openness.
The Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Office will be hosting a contest open to all Canadians. Contestants will be asked to complete a quiz testing their knowledge of Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy legislation and its applicability to certain scenarios. The winning contestant will receive a portable DVD player and two access to information themed movies.
The Right to Know Week Quiz will be available on our website on Monday, September 28, 2009 at 9:00 am.
Sep 25, 2009
Privacy Review Officer Appointed
The Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Office is pleased to announce a major development with respect to privacy in Nova Scotia.
Today, September 25, 2009, Nova Scotia joins all other Canadian provinces and territories in providing comprehensive privacy protections in the public sector for its citizens. Bill 234 passed the House of Assembly and was proclaimed An Act to Provide for a Privacy Review Officer.
The incumbent Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer Ms. Dulcie McCallum was appointed the new Privacy Review Officer. The Privacy Review Officer Act in part stipulates the following powers for the Privacy Review Officer:
monitor how privacy provisions are administered and conduct reviews of privacy complaints arising from the privacy provisions;
initiate an investigation of privacy compliance if there are reasonable grounds to believe that a person has contravened or is about to contravene the privacy provisions and the subject matter of the review relates to the contravention;
make recommendations on and mediate privacy complaints;
undertake research matters concerning privacy legislation;
inform the public about this Act;
on the request of a public body, provide advice and comments on privacy;
a person who believes that his or her own personal information has been collected, used or disclosed in contravention of the privacy provisions may ask the Privacy Review Officer to review the matter;
the powers and duties of the Review Officer in the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act and related Regulations are referentially incorporated mutatis mutandis.
This new legislation makes the jurisdiction of the Review Officer clear with respect to privacy complaints regarding public bodies. The new Act strengthens the role with respect to privacy by enabling the Review Officer to initiate an investigation, to undertake research, to engage in public education and to provide advice to public bodies. Nova Scotia, which was the first province to introduce access to information legislation, has comprehensive privacy protections in place.
To view the Nova Scotia government press release regarding Ms. McCallum's most recent appointment, please go to http://www.gov.ns.ca/news/details.asp?id=20090925002
Jun 04, 2008
Press Release - Regina, June 4, 2008
Privacy Advocates Express Concern About Child Privacy Online
Jun 04, 2008
New Publication Release - June 2008
Respecting Your Access and Privacy Rights - A Citizen's Guide for Nova Scotians
Feb 05, 2008
Press Release - February 5, 2008
Enhanced Driver's Licenses Concern Canada's Privacy Guardians
Dec 01, 2007
Companions to democracy
This article was published in the December 2007 (1:3) issue of The Nova Scotia Policy Review (www.policyreview.ca) and is reproduced here with permission.
Oct 01, 2007
Right to Know Week October 1 - October 5, 2007
Premier Rodney MacDonald proclaims October 1 - October 5, 2007 Right to Know Week in Nova Scotia. Click here to view the Proclamation.
September 28, 2007 is International Right to Know Day. In Canada, the week of October 01-05, 2007 has been designated as “Right to Know Week.” There will be various activities in most provinces and at the national level during this week.
The Nova Scotia Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Office is participating in this Canada-wide effort to raise awareness of the right to access information and its value, with a local focus on what it means to those living and working in Nova Scotia.
The Review Office will be co-hosting events in conjunction with various libraries in Nova Scotia, as well as participating in an open forum with the Nova Scotia Right to Know Coalition.
The purpose of these events is to celebrate the right of Canadians, particularly Nova Scotians to access information in the possession, or under the control of public bodies as enshrined in freedom of information legislation. Such legislation reinforces the accountability of governments by ensuring they operate with transparency and openness.
Sep 10, 2007
Time Extension Request Procedure, September 10, 2007
Jun 28, 2007
Press Release - June 28, 2007
No-fly List Program - Call for suspension
Mar 29, 2007
Press Release - March 29, 2007
Review Fee Eliminated
Feb 01, 2007
New FOIPOP Review Officer Appointed
Dulcie McCallum, former Ombudsman for the Province of British Columbia, is Nova Scotia's new Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Review Officer.
Ms. McCallum received her law degree from the University of Victoria and has expertise in administrative and human rights law. Over the past 30 years, Ms. McCallum has held positions in private practice and in the public sector. She was Ombudsman for the Province of British Columbia for seven years, until 1999. Since then, Ms. McCallum has worked for government and a number of organizations, including representative on the Canadian Delegation to the United Nations, to draft the new UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
Ms. McCallum will assume office on February 5, 2007
NEWS RELEASE
For immediate release
June 28, 2016
HALIFAX - Official reporting suggests privacy breaches don't happen in Nova Scotia. Meaningful privacy breach notification is critical to protecting citizens' privacy rights, but Nova Scotia's public sector access and privacy laws do not require notification. Catherine Tully, Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia, has called for that to change in her office's 2015-2016 Annual Report, released today. Read more...
Read the OIPC 2015-2016 Annual Report
The Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia is also known as the Review Officer and is appointed as the independent oversight authority under the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act, the Municipal Government Act, the Personal Health Information Act and the Privacy Review Officer Act.
Please Note: While the Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia is independent of the Province of Nova Scotia the Google Search engine used by our office is hosted by the Province of Nova Scotia.
This page and all contents Copyright © 2006 Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia, All Rights Reserved.
Please view the Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia's Privacy Policy and Website Privacy Statement.
Send us your comments and suggestions through our Contact Us.
Office of the Information and Privacy Commissioner for Nova Scotia
P.O. Box 181, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3J 2M4 / 2026-July-24
Home - About FOIPOP - Legislation - Publications - Review Reports - News - Links - Contact Us