Social Worker Licence | Health and Social Services
Jump to navigation
www.gov.nt.ca
Departments
Contact Us
Indigenous Languages
English
Français
Enter the terms you wish to search for.
Health and Social Services
Menu Search
Enter the terms you wish to search for.
English
Français
Apply for a Social Work Licence
Renew Your Social Work Licence
Home
About
Topics
Resources
Jobs
Newsroom
HSS Professionals (Staff Only)
www.gov.nt.ca
Departments
Contact Us
Indigenous Languages
Home
About
Budget
Public Engagement
Corporate Reports
Health Care Service Complaints
Legislation and Policies
Ministerial Directives
Mandate 2023-2027
Meet the Minister
Privacy
Research
Patient / Client Relations
Contact Us
Topics
Resources
Forms
Jobs
Newsroom
News Releases
Drinking Water Advisories
Public Health Advisories
HSS Professionals (Staff Only)
Listen
You are here
www.gov.nt.ca » HSS » Programs and Services » Social Worker Licence
Social Worker Licence
What would you like to do?
Top Items
Apply for a Social Work Licence
Renew Your Social Work Licence
Other
Apply for a Certificate of Good Standing
Note: Foreign graduates must provide a certified true copy (by a Notary Public) of the degree/diploma as well as a certified true copy of the letter from the Canadian Association of Social Workers confirming Canadian Standard equivalencies were met.
Registered Social Worker:
A degree is required which must be from an institution indicating the program has been accredited by the Canadian Association Social Work Education.
Licensed Social Worker category:
Diplomas must be on the approved list by the Minister of Health and Social Services. The list consists of schools approved in Alberta:
Blue Quills First Nations College;
Grant MacEwan University;
Maskwacis Cultural College;
Medicine Hat College;
Mount Royal University;
Norquest College;
Northern Lakes College;
Portage College; and
Red Deer College.
The approved diploma programs in Ontario can be found here: https://www.ocswssw.org/registration-section/ontario-social-service-work-diploma/
The Aurora College diploma program and the First Nation Certificate in Social Work and Indian Social Work from the Faculty of Social Work, First Nations University of Canada in Saskatchewan are also approved programs for the Licensed Social Worker Category.
Fees
Registered Social Worker Registration (RSW)
$191
Licensed Social Worker Registration (LSW)
$191
Registration
The Social Work Profession Act came into force as of January 1, 2012, which provides for the licensing of social workers in the NWT to ensure that only qualified individuals be able to call themselves social workers. Pursuant to this legislation, all individuals using the title or holding themselves out to be Social Workers are required to be licensed.
The Act provides for two categories in the social work profession:
Registered Social Worker (R.S.W.) which will require a Bachelor of Social Work
Licenced Social Worker (L.S.W.) which will require a Diploma of Social Work
Continuing Competency Requirements
Registrants are required to meet continuing competency requirements each year in order to maintain licensure. Please see the link below to provide you with a log sheet to assist you in this process of tracking your continuing competency initiatives. You must retain this log sheet for a period of 5 years as the Registrar may conduct an audit where this will help substantiate proof or your meeting requirements.
Continuing Competency for Social Workers in the NWT
Snapshot
Registrant Requirements and Standards
Code of Ethics Social Workers
Standards of Practice for Social Workers in the NWT
If you have any questions about your scope of practice in the NWT please contact: Professional_licensing@gov.nt.ca.
Legislation
Social Work Profession Act
Social Work Profession General Regulations
Contacts
Association of Social Workers in Northern Canada: www.socialworknorth.ca
Registrar, Chief of Profession Regulation: Professional_Licensing@gov.nt.ca
Health Care and Social Service Complaints
Social Worker Licence
Apply for a Social Work Licence
Renew Your Social Work Licence
Contact Us
Registrar, Chief of Profession Regulation
Health and Social Services
5015-49th Street (7th Floor)
P.O. Box 1320
Yellowknife, NT X1A 2L9
Phone
867-767-9067, ext. 49053
professional_licensing@gov.nt.ca
Phone Directory
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Using the LISTEN Feature